OK so let's add the filter.
So I'm going to just slow down just a little bit because this one is can you.
So whenever we just type something on the input we want to go run a function.
This function is going to check the teams it's going to try to find one and whenever it's finding one
is just going to change the state of filtered.
OK.
So first set we want this component to be a control component.
So the whatever value we type inside it's going to be handled by react.
So we need to set a value to use the state of keyword.
So I'm going to say value equal to this dot state and right here we have the keyboard.
OK.
So I'm going to say Dot and keyword right.
So whenever we type something right here we need to trigger onchange listener listener and run a function
that it's going to just search for a team that's going to go right here the bottom and I'm going to
call to an on Change event change.
Very good.
So the change is going to run a function it's going to pass an event and so we can say like this with
if we use a function that it's going to be just a nerve function and then just something in our front
room is going to be called search term search term.
So what do we need to do right now.
We need to pass the event whenever we just do something right here.
So if I pass the event right here what we can do instead of putting this inside a parenthesis since
we have only one arguments you can skip the parenthesis and we run a function and we pass the event
right.
Search team do it dry team.
OK so now we need to call to this function to create this function.
So let's go right here.
On top of the rental list and we're going to just create the function.
This function is going to take an event.
So I going to say events and then just run the function right.
So now we what we need to do from the event of the input we need to grab the value.
So we have access to the values inside the event that target that value.
So I'm going to create a viable that is going to host this keyboard and say a keyboard.
Now this is going to be equal to event that target
dot value.
Right.
So we get the keyword right there.
So the Council of the keyboard just to make sure that everything works fine is going to say keyboard
and I'm just going to reload the page open the console.
And if you go to the console and type something up and type something.
That's why we are kind of getting it.
We have an error message.
You know it's just showing one for all.
So we are not setting the state correctly and this is because whenever we pass because we are calling
the search team we need to set the state of this ward to the state that we have right here in town.
You know that's why it's not working.
We are not updating the state.
So OK.
Now the thing is that we need to check for some things.
For example if I just go right here to the to the finish one and if I tie something that ties something
you're going to search something with an neph.
We don't have it.
It's not going to return anything.
But if I delete something is going to go back to all the teams is going to show back to all the teams.
So we need a way to check if the keyword is empty or not.
So I'm going to delete this and I'm going to create a conditional right and this one is going to check
if the keyword it's empty.
So you're going to say if keyword it's different than nothing.
Just we want to update the state and filter the teams.
But if it's empty we want to set the state of pretty much everything.
So I'm going to do that with the other one first.
I'm going to say this don't set state and we want to set the state of teams and filter in theory filters.
We already have teams.
All right.
It's the whole database and this one we should not mutate this one but this one we can mutate it as
much as we want.
So I'm going to call the filtered and the filtered.
It's going to be equal to all the teams.
So since we have all the teams inside this that teams inside it is just that state that teams can say
that filter is going to be equals equal to this does that state that teams.
All right.
The next thing is is going to be to set the keyboard whenever we type something we are on the input
we need to update the state of keyboard.
So even though we have nothing we should be doing it right here.
So again it's a keyboard and the keyboard again it's going to be equal to keyboard.
So I'm going to put it right here.
You could say even the target the built that value but in us that we can use keyboard.
So if we have the same key value pairs we can get rid of the second one and say keyboard and that's
going to work.
So now we can check this right now because you know we cannot say for the time something nothing is
going to happen.
So what we need to do.
Birkat Let's go back.
So what do we need to do is to set the first conditional just right now let's just make sure we're going
to put event a target value and see what happens.
If I type something that's when nothing happens.
So OK.
So this is good not what we need to do now is to set the stage in case of we have in case we have something
as volume keyword.
If I type something nothing is going to happen that we have we have a letter right here.
We have character and it's inside the state inside the key sorry the event the event or target the volley.
So now we need to set the state of that.
OK.
That's fine.
Whenever we get a keyword or just a letter we need to search the teams just to run a filter and just
trying to find whatever is inside teams with the keyboards we are typing now for this we cannot use
a map because we don't want to map the entire list.
We just want to find something now to find something we can use a helper that is going to be called
Filter.
You can use that helper.
So I'm going to store everything in evolvable and this helper this filter helpful helper is just like
the map is going to return an array by default.
So I'm going to say Konst list and I'm going to say equal.
And now I want to run a filter so I'm going to say this dot state DOT teams because you want to filter
all the teams and it's going to be dot and we're going to use the Filcher helper or helper.
Just like a map is going to take an item and it's going to run a function OK.
Now whenever we use the filter we need to return something just like a map.
Now what we need to do is we need to return something if it matches a criteria.
So what we need to do is to check if the keyword we are passing it's inside of the name of the team.
Right.
So since we want to check the name of the team we're going to say item dad's name.
Know we have item right here and we access the name since the names in the database are with uppercase
as with capital letters.
We need to convert everything to lowercase before we can compare the keywords we are entering with the
actual name on the database.
So I'm going to say to lower case and just have it right here to lower case this is a javascript function
that's going to grab whatever value you're calling bringing in right here.
It's converting everything to lowercase.
Now to check if the keyword it's inside of the the name of the team.
Well we can use because we can make use of the index off.
So I'm going to say index off and right here we pass what we want to check.
And we want to check the keyword.
So we say Key says this keyword could be in uppercase is whenever we type break here.
Again we want to convert this keyword to lowercase so we can skip our messages.
Now if there is some match right here it's going to return something.
So we're going to check if these if there is a match and if it's greater than minus one.
Now if there is a match this index off it's going to return something that is zero OK and greater than
1 reader I'm sorry greater than zero but since if there is nothing we want to return something that
is less than 1 or I that's fine.
So if it's zero is going to it means that we found a match.
But if it's a negative number just like less than zero which is one we're going to get that.
It's not finding anything.
That's pretty much what's doing.
So that's fine.
You know this is just javascript.
It's not.
Yes.
So it's not react just plain Javascript.
So let's reload the page and see what happens.
OK.
Nothing is going to happen because we are returning everything inside the list Marvel.
Now what we need to do is to update the state with whatever we have inside the list.
So I'm going to go right here I'm going to call the set state right where we such state we want to change
the state of the things.
So first we want to change the state of filter right filter is going to be equal to whatever you're
getting inside list.
So if I say list should be working now since this is going we need to do the same thing we did with
keyboard type keyword and event the target value.
Now if I type something it's going to update the input is going to search if there is a match and if
there is a match is going to return everything inside list and then we said the state of filter list.
Let's see what happens.
It's I pocks and it's working.
Good talks.
If I just delete everything since we set a default as a scenario it's going to show all the teams.
If I type something something else so thick Celltex know Celtics Arrigo is going to show the Celtics.
So yeah it's working nicely.
So now we're going to go to the next section and we're going to do the styling for this.
And again if you want to go to have and get staff there's no problem you can go and copy the SS and
just paste it in your application.
OK.
So this was fine and I'm and I want to check something else.
I want to show you something else right here we are doing keyboard event.
The target value.
The thing is that we already have have it right here.
So if I just delete this key word is going to be equal to keyboard.
Right.
If I did this again.
Again keyboard is going to be equal to the keyboard.
We have right here so if I type Hock's it's going to still work.
If you go to Celtic
it works right with ESX and this is ESX it's not it's not react whenever you have a key value per with
the same name.
Javascript it's gonna assume that you have the same.
So if you put one it will still understand what you want to do.
So if you get confused with this off it's confusing you know if there is a match is going to return
or return a positive number and if it's not it's going to return minus 1.
OK so that's fine.
Let's go to the next section and do the styling for this.